Detawks(1) -- Renames files en masse
====================================

## SYNOPSIS

`detawks` [OPTIONS] <glob / directory / file>

## DESCRIPTION

Detawks is a lazy Node.js adaptation of detox, tailored with personal preferences for file naming. Its primary motivation is to facilitate the installation of a detox setup using yarn, adding arguably useful configurations.

## EXAMPLES

    detawks ./*.zip

This will result in:

    BIG OLD FILENAME.zip -> big-old-filename.zip
    я компьютерный файл.zip -> blahblah.zip 
    camelCase.zip -> camelcase.zip

## OPTIONS

- `-s`, `--silent`:
  Silent mode (no console logs for new file names).

- `-d`, `--dryrun`:
  Dry run (shows potential file renames without executing them).

- `-f`, `--dirs`:
  Includes directories in the operation, e.g., renames those too.

- `-n`, `--numbered`:
  Rename everything to an integer; 1-????.

- `-m`, `--max-depth`:
  Specifies max depth for operations.

- `-l`, `--list`:
  List all possible string operations.

- `-h`, `--help`:
  Show help information.

## CONFIGURATION

The configuration file follows the rc package conventions. Create your own config at `~/.detawksrc`. The default configuration is located at `./default.detawksrc`.

### Example configuration

    "ignores": [
      "node_modules",
      ".git",
      ".DS_Store"
    ],
    "sequence": [
      "toString",
      "trim",
      "doSwaps",
      "toParamCase",
      "lowerCase",
      {
        "name": "maxChars",
        "args": {
          "num": 100
        }
      }
    ]

## SEQUENCE FUNCTIONS SUPPORTED

- **toParamCase**: Converts a string to param case.
- **removeInvalidChars**: Removes invalid characters.
- **toString**: Ensures input is a string.
- **trim**: Removes leading and trailing whitespace.
- **lowerCase**: Converts the string to lowercase.
- **replaceWhiteSpace**: Replaces whitespace with a specified character.
- **maxChars**: Truncates the string to a maximum length.
- **minChars**: Removes characters from the start.
- **removeConsecutiveDashes**: Replaces consecutive dashes with a single dash.
- **fallbackToRandom**: Returns a random string if the input is empty.

## ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

Special thanks to the contributor: [codeguy's gist](https://gist.github.com/codeguy/6684588)

Check out fdir for file operations: [fdir library](https://github.com/thecodrr/fdir)

Detawks(1)
